hi and thanks for watching in this
tutorial we're going to be removing a
customer's existing fence and replacing
it with a six-foot tall cedar privacy
fence you can see by the size of this
fence it is a large project so before
starting any project like this make sure
you have plenty of energy
begin tearing the fence out by cutting
out the panels with a sawzall or a
chainsaw saws are great for the dirt if
you use a chainsaw and you get into the
dirt it will dull your blade next step
you want to go through and then dig out
all of your end and corner and gatepost
for all the other posts left in the
ground just cut them off with a sawzall
make sure to cut those at ground level
so we are going to be putting another
fence in its place once the old fence
has been removed go through and set all
of your end and corner posts you want
these posts set because they're going to
be your your reference for your line
it's what you'll use your string with if
you use a string measure the total
distance between each end post divide
that distance evenly remember for wood
fences to keep that distance under 8
feet for each post here's an example if
you have a line that is 58 feet remember
you don't want your spacing to be any
more than 8 feet between each post so
divide that evenly and you're going to
get seven point two five feet between
each post once you're in poster in you
can use a string or just by eye and
you're going to site in the post the
post holes this is where you're going to
be digging your holes for your line post
once the holes are
you can go ahead and sight in the line
post set up in concrete level your post
and make sure that your line posts are
going to be in a straight line don't
worry about the tops because we're going
to come back and cut these later the
post depth needs to be about 24 inches
and always remember have a little bit of
fun while you're working makes the day
go by for the gate you want to measure
the opening side in the post holes once
they're dug site in and set the gate
post and concrete once again post hole
depth is about 24 inches the gate posts
do you have to be exact you're not going
to cut those because they are metal post
from bottom to top the measurement will
be 69 inches make sure the holes and
your hinging posts are going to be in
line with your fence line now you're
going to measure for your latch post
remember you need two inches on each
side two inches for your hinge and two
inches for your latch if you have a 36
inch gate you'll need a 40 to 40 inch
opening you'll want to level the top of
the gate post
and then make sure that the gatepost are
level with the outside of the fence the
side of the fence that you're going to
have your pickets on once all your posts
are in go through each line and then
make sure that your posts are in line
and level that one looks straight that
one looks pretty straight as well when
you're finished go through and get your
two-by-four count most everything should
work out to where you're going to use
three 16-foot two by fours per Section
thanks for watching please watch part
two of this tutorial for project
completion